These birds want your attention 24/7 and can cuddle with you for hours. They don't understand that you have a life and you'll most likely never get them to understand that. If you don't meet your bird's needs, he will most likely scream non-stop, pluck out his feathers, and become very aggressive. Feather plucking is a very serious condition--birds that begin to feather pluck can also start self mutilating. These behavioral problems can come about from lack of interaction, wrong foods, bad placement, improper cages and many other factors. This is why they are the most common parrots found at bird rescues. So keep in mind that these birds require a very high time and care commitment. You will also find that 'Toos are very loud. They love to scream and Moluccans can scream up to 135 decibels. Some will scream for attention and some will scream for no reason at all. They like to perform and show off, which can include screaming early in the morning as well as in the evening. They can also be aggressive for no apparent reason. Because of this, you should never let your 'Too on your shoulder or dominant aggressive behavior may begin. They are very smart, curious, and mischevious. They are expert escape artists and can open almost any cage door. You need to put locks on your bird's cage doors, but keep in mind that many can learn to pick a padlock or open a combination lock. They also love to chew and will destroy your home if left unattended. While purchasing a cage, keep in mind that they not only need large cages, but also very well built cages. It's not difficult for a 'Too to learn how to take apart a poorly built cage. They also differ by subspecies when it comes to behavior. For example, Goffin's are a bit more independent than the other subspecies, so they make better pets for the average bird owner. So, make sure you research the individual subspecies for more information. If you are able to spend at least two full hours a day with your bird (out of his cage), not leave the house for 6 or more hours everyday, cook for your bird and provide him with a variety of healthy foods, handle the loud screaming, afford the large cage and huge amount of toys, and deal with the adjustment stage that can include aggression, then rescuing a 'Too might be a great idea. Make sure you research as much as possible because you don't want to add to the already out-of-hand rescue problem. Because so many of these birds are left to rescues, I highly encourage you to visit your local parrot rescue, see what I'm talking about, and consider rescuing one of these poor magestic creatures instead of buying one in a store. If you can handle all this, then this really might be the right bird for you.
