A virus is a microscopic organism consisting of genetic material surrounded by a protein, lipid, or glycoprotein coat. Some microbiologists classify viruses as microorganisms, while others don't because they are "nonliving" and describe viruses as microscopic infective agents. Viruses are unique microorganisms because they cannot reproduce without a host cell. After contacting a host cell, a virus will insert genetic material into the host and take over that host's functions. The cell, now infected, continues to reproduce, but it reproduces more viral protein and genetic material instead of its usual products. It is this process that earns viruses the classification of "parasite". Most of us know about friendly bacteria that exists in our intestines and help us digest food. Scientists from San Diego State University reported in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences that humans also carry friendly viruses that help protect us from dangerous bacteria. Jeremy Barr and team believe their discovery may change how several diseases are treated. They discovered that mucus contains bacteriophages, viruses that actively protect their hosts form harmful bacteria by destroying them. Barr wrote "Taking previous research into consideration, we are able to propose the Bacteriophage Adherence to Mucus or BAM is a new model of immunity, which emphasizes the important role bacteriophage play in protecting the body from invading pathogens. We envision BAM influencing the prevention and treatment of mucosal infections seen in the gut and lungs, having applications for phage therapy and even directly interacting with the human immune system." Viruses may spread vertically (from mother to child) or horizontally (from person to person). A virus's ability to spread depends on the makeup of the virus. Some viruses can spread by simple contact, exchanges of saliva, coughing, or sneezing. Some require sexual contact, while others go through the fecal-oral route via contaminated food or water. Still other viruses require an insect like a mosquito to carry the virus from person to person.
